CS/B.TECH/CSE/EVEN/SEM-8/CS-802E/2015-16
E-COMMERCE
Time Allotted: 3 Hours                          Full Marks: 70

GROUP - A (Multiple Choice Type Questions)
1. Choose the correct alternatives for the following: (10 x 1 = 10)

i) Which one of the following is not an E-Commerce?
   a) B2C
   b) B2G
   c) B2D
   d) B2B.

ii) The default port of HTTP is
   a) 81
   b) 80
   c) 70
   d) 71.

iii) ISP stands for
   a) Internet Service Provider
   b) Internet Service Protocol
   c) Intranet Service Protocol
   d) none of these.

iv) Electronic commerce is enabled by
   a) EDP era technologies
   b) MIS era technologies
   c) Internet era technologies
   d) all of these.

v) Friction in a transaction is defined as
   a) overhead
   b) loss
   c) profit
   d) none of these.

vi) Flood attack by attackers happens on
   a) router
   b) hub
   c) switch
   d) server.

vii) Which one of the following is ASCII protocol?
   a) SNMP
   b) SMTP
   c) SET
   d) PGP.

viii) Credit Card payment is under
   a) B2B e-commerce
   b) B2C e-commerce
   c) C2C e-commerce
   d) none of these.

ix) E-trading is also called
   a) E-brokering
   b) E-supply
   c) E-auctions
   d) both (a) and (b).

x) DES stands for
   a) Data Encryption Standard
   b) Digital Encryption Standard
   c) Double Encryption Standard
   d) Data Encryption System.

GROUP B (Short Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following. (3 x 5 = 15)

2. Define Electronic Data Interchange. What are the components of Electronic Data Interchange?
3. Explain how SSL protocol is used for secure transaction. Explain the advantages of e-commerce.
4. Discuss in brief virtual auction. Explain the differences between virtual auction and reverse auction.
5. What is Firewall? State the function of Firewall in e-commerce.
6. What role does SCM play in Business to Business model i.e. B2B e-commerce?

GROUP-C (Long Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following. (3 x 15 = 45)

7. Explain the different types of digital documents. How risk is handled in e-Payment system? Explain how Smart Cards and Credit Cards have roles in e-commerce applications.

8. Describe the functional requirements for online selling and what specialized services and servers perform these functions. Who are the stakeholders in e-commerce information system? Explain the benefits and limitations of e-commerce. Explain the concept of 'Business Content' in SAP Business Information Warehouse.

9. a) Define digital cash or e-cash. Explain with example how an online banking system works.
   b) Explain the working principle of DES algorithm.

10. Distinguish between SSL and SET protocol. Explain EAN coding system for EDI message. Explain the ways and means of protecting online website operations from hackers.

11. Write short notes on any three of the following: (3 x 5 = 15)
    a) RSA algorithm
    b) Trade cycle and different stages of a Trade cycle
    c) Data Warehouse
    d) Decision support system
    e) Collaborative computing.
