CS/B.TECH/CSE/SEM-8/CS-801E/2013
E-COMMERCE AND ERP
Time Allotted: 3 Hours                          Full Marks: 70

GROUP - A (Multiple Choice Type Questions)
1. Choose the correct answers for the following: (10 x 1 = 10)

i) What combines purchase requests from multiple buyers into a single large order, which justifies a discount from the business?
   a) Digital divide
   b) Global digital divide
   c) Demand aggregation
   d) None of these.

ii) Which segment do eBay, Amazon.com and LandsEnd.com belong?
   a) B2Bs
   b) B2Cs
   c) C2Bs
   d) C2Cs.

iii) Digital products are best suited for B2C e-commerce because they
   a) are commodity like products
   b) can be mass-customized and personalized
   c) can be delivered at the time of purchase
   d) all of these.

iv) All of the following are techniques B2C e-commerce companies use to attract customers, except
   a) Registering with search engines
   b) Viral marketing
   c) Online ads
   d) Virtual marketing.

v) What is the percentage of customers who visit a Web site and actually buy something called?
   a) Affiliate programs
   b) Click-throughs
   c) Spam
   d) Conversion rate.

vi) What are plastic cards of the size of a credit card that contains an embedded chip on which digital information can be stored?
   a) Customer relationship management systems cards
   b) E-government identity cards
   c) FEDI cards
   d) Smart cards.

vii) Which of the following are advantages normally associated with B2B e-commerce?
   a) Shorter cycle times
   b) Reduction in costs
   c) Reaches wider audiences
   d) All of these.

viii) If the suppliers in a particular industry hold a lot of power, the industry is
   a) saturated with alternative products or services
   b) using information technology to gain a competitive advantage
   c) more attractive to enter
   d) none of these.

ix) Which statement describes switching costs?
   a) There are many alternatives to using the product or service
   b) There are few alternatives to using the product or service
   c) High costs that make customers reluctant to switch to another product or service
   d) Low costs that make customers want to switch to another product or service.

x) Which of the following is a useful tool when considering business strategy and IT?
   a) Porter's Five Forces Model
   b) Competitive Intelligence
   c) General Business Model
   d) B2B model.

GROUP - B (Short Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following. (3 x 5 = 15)

2. Can ERP software package be applied in
   i) Process Industry
   ii) Service Industry?
   Justify.
3. What are the risks for a small company connecting itself electronically with major customers?
4. Briefly explain the supply chain planning and a few software for SCP.
5. Define WAP. What are the handheld devices?
6. What are the advantages and disadvantages of E-Cash?

GROUP - C (Long Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following. (3 x 15 = 45)

7. a) What steps are to be followed while implementing IT software packages for SCM?
   b) Do these steps vary from package to package? How are they standardized?

8. a) Give a list of potential benefits of using EDI.
   b) Who are the service providers of EDI in India and what are their terms and conditions?
   c) Compare and contrast Extranet and Intranet.

9. a) What are the main disadvantages of E-Commerce?
   b) What are the four C's? Describe briefly with structured diagram what each 'C' means.

10. a) Define ERP. Give its tangible and intangible benefits.
    b) Why does a company pursue a new ERP solution?
    c) What are the functional modules and technical modules in ERP package?

11. Write short notes on any three of the following: (3 x 5 = 15)
    a) B2B
    b) Data Warehouse
    c) SCE Framework
    d) Data Encryption methodology
    e) Decision Support System.
