ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT EXAMINATIONS, APRIL - 2009
E-COMMERCE & ERP (SEMESTER - 8)
Time Allotted: 3 Hours                          Full Marks: 70

GROUP - A (Multiple Choice Type Questions)
1. Choose the correct alternatives for the following: (10 x 1 = 10)

i) EDI requires
   a) representation of common business documents in computer readable form
   b) data entry operators by receivers
   c) special value added networks
   d) special hardware at co-operating business premises.

ii) By security in e-Commerce we mean
   I.   protecting an organization's data resource from unauthorized access
   II.  preventing disasters from happening
   III. authenticating messages received by an organization
   IV.  protecting messages sent on the internet from being read and understood by unauthorized persons/organizations
   a) I, II
   b) II, III
   c) III, IV
   d) I, III, IV.

iii) A firewall may be implemented in
   a) routers which connect intranet to internet
   b) bridges used in an intranet
   c) expensive modem
   d) user's application programs.

iv) Public key encryption method is a system
   a) which uses a set of public keys one for each participant in e-commerce
   b) in which each person who wants to communicate has two keys a private key known to him only and a public key which is publicized to enable others to send message to him
   c) which uses the RSA coding system
   d) which is a standard for use in e-Commerce.

v) In electronic cash payment
   I.   a customer withdraws 'coins' in various denominations signed by the bank
   II.  the bank has a database of issued coins
   III. the bank has a database of spent coins
   IV.  the bank cannot trace a customer.
   a) I, II
   b) I, II, III
   c) I, II, III, IV
   d) II, III, IV.

vi) SET protocol is use for
   a) Securing message transfer
   b) Securing card transaction
   c) Securing authentication
   d) Securing overall e-Commerce.

vii) A key is a
   a) Value
   b) Logic
   c) Function
   d) All of these.

viii) Which model of e-commerce deals with virtual auction?
   a) Aggregator model
   b) Info-mediary model
   c) Community model
   d) Brokerage model.

ix) A/an ________ is a network that links selected resources of a company's internet with its customers, suppliers or other business partners.
   a) internet
   b) extranet
   c) VPN
   d) wide area network.

x) How many types of trade cycle are there in e-commerce?
   a) One
   b) Two
   c) Three
   d) Four.

GROUP - B (Short Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following. (3 x 5 = 15)

2. What do you mean by knowledge engineering and business process redesign?
3. Explain E-Governance with suitable examples.
4. What are the benefits and points of concern in CPD?
5. What is BPR? Explain with an example.
6. Distinguish between CRM and SRM.

GROUP - C (Long Answer Type Questions)
Answer any three of the following questions. (3 x 15 = 45)

7. a) What is Digital signature? How they differ from Digital certificate?
   b) Given two prime nos. P=17, Q=29. Find out N, E and D in RSA encryption.
   c) What is firewall? State the function of firewall in e-commerce.

8. a) What is call center? Discuss about the call center equipment.
   b) What are the modes of operation of call center?
   c) What is Customer Premises Equipment (CPE)? What do you mean by Denial of Service Attacks?

9. a) What is EDI?
   b) What are the basic components of EDI? Describe briefly.
   c) What role does it play in e-commerce?
   d) Explain EDIFACT.
   e) Briefly explain the benefits of EDI.

10. a) Define ERP. How can information be integrated using ERP?
    b) What are the reasons for the growth of ERP market? What are the advantages of ERP system?

11. Write short notes on any three of the following: (3 x 5 = 15)
    a) EAI
    b) SCE framework
    c) BAAN
    d) SAP
    e) VPN.
